[ADD] Payroll: Egyptian localization (#13862)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/payroll/payroll_localizations/egypt.rst

.. note::
   Contracts can also be found by navigating to :menuselection:`Employees app --> Employees -->
   Contracts`. All contracts appear in a list view, grouped by status.

Populate the following contractual information in the :guilabel:`Salary Information` tab of the
contract:

- :guilabel:`Social Insurance Reference Amount`: This is the amount that is used as the base amount
  for calculating the :ref:`social insurance employee and employer portions
  <payroll/l10n_eg_hr_payroll/social_insurance>`.
- :guilabel:`Number of Leave Days`: This value is used for calculating the :ref:`provision amount
  for the annual leave for the employee <payroll/l10n_eg_hr_payroll/provisions>`.
- :guilabel:`Provision Number of Days`: This corresponds to the number of days used in the
  calculation of the :ref:`provision value of the end of service for the employee
  <payroll/l10n_eg_hr_payroll/provisions>`.
- :guilabel:`Total Number of Days`: It refers to the number of days used to calculate the
  :ref:`end-of-service benefit paid to the employee when their employment with the company ends
  <payroll/l10n_eg_hr_payroll/end_of_service>`.

> .. _payroll/l10n_eg_hr_payroll/social_insurance:

Author: Ahh - ok! I used what they did for the Belgium localization anchors, so I copied those since I wanted to be consistent. but I like these better!

> .. _payroll/l10n_eg_hr_payroll/social_insurance:

Author: Oh wait a second - but if I use that, and there's another localization doc that uses "social insurance" won't it be a duplicate anchor?

Social Insurance
================

Social insurance rules calculate the contribution amounts that are to be paid by the employer and
employee to the :abbr:`NOSI (National Organization for Social Insurance)`. This is only available
for Egyptian employees.

The employer contributes 18.75% of the social insurance reference amount for the employee. On the
other hand, the employee contributes 11% of their insurance reference amount, and that amount gets
deducted from the payslip amount.

.. important::
   The social insurance reference amount is set per employee in their contracts.

Leaves
======

> The following leave types are available to employees working in Egypt:

Author: I added ref links in the doc for the leave types - much better now!

Annual leave
------------

Employees are eligible for 21 days of annual leave, and if the employee requires more days, they
have to be :ref:`requested from HR managers <time_off/request-allocation>` accordingly.

.. important::
   Since the annual leave is fully paid, it is not connected to a salary rule, but it will appear on
   the worked days on the payslip form and on the PDF printout.

Sick leave
----------

Three cases exist for sick leaves in terms of the amount to be deducted from the employee:

> - :guilabel:`Fully paid`: This is the case for the first 30 sick leave calendar days in a year, and
>   since they are fully paid, they are not connected to a payroll rule and only affect the working
>   entries of the employee.
> - :guilabel:`75% paid`: This is the case for the next 60 sick leave calendar days in a year, and
>   based on the number of leaves taken from this type, a deduction is applied to the employee of 25%
>   of their salary.

Reviewer: suggestion for breivty, totally optional!

```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Fully paid`: first 30 calendar days each year (affects only working entries; no payroll
  deduction).
- :guilabel:`75% paid`: next 60 days; payroll rule deducts the 25% of an employee's salary.
```

>   - **Payroll computation:** (Daily Wage * 0.25)

Reviewer: idont think the bullet point is necessary, and let's use = to make it look more mathy!
```suggestion
  **Payroll computation** = Daily Wage * 0.25
```

- :guilabel:`0% paid`: This is the case for any sick leave calendar day after the first 90 days of
  sick leave days in a year, and based on the number of the leaves taken from this type, a deduction

>   is applied on the employee of 25% of their salary times the number of days taken.

Reviewer: i'm confused by this. it's labeled 0% paid but the paragraph part says it's 25% of their salary?

  - **Payroll computation:** (Daily Wage * 0.25)

Unpaid leave
------------

Deductions are applied on the employee's salary based on the number of unpaid leave days taken, and
it is calculated by dividing the monthly salary for the employee by 30 to get the daily salary and
then multiplying it by the number of unpaid leave days taken.

Other leave types
-----------------

These are leave types considered fully paid and do not affect the end payslip, but are tracked in
the working entries:

- Maternity leave
- Hajj leave
- Death leave

Income Tax
==========

In Egypt, employees are subject to a progressive income tax system, where tax rates increase with
higher annual income brackets.

Tax brackets
------------

Depending on the annual income of the employee, the following rates apply:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Taxable Amount
     - <600k

>      - 600k< & <700k
>      - 700k< & <800k
>      - 800k< & <900k
>      - 900k< & <1.2M
>      - 1.2M<

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - 600-699k
     - 700 - 799k
     - 800 - 899k
     - 900k - 1.2M
     - >1.2M
```

   * - 0%
     - 1-40k
     - -
     - -
     - -
     - -
     - -
   * - 10%
     - More than 40k to 55k
     - 1 - 55k
     - -
     - -
     - -
     - -
   * - 15%
     - More than 55k to 70k
     - More than 55k to 70k
     - 1 - 70k
     - -
     - -
     - -
   * - 20%
     - More than 70k to 200k
     - More than 70k to 200k
     - More than 70k to 200k
     - 1 - 200k
     - -
     - -
   * - 22.5%
     - More than 200k to 400k
     - More than 200k to 400k
     - More than 200k to 400k
     - More than 200k to 400k
     - 1 - 400k
     - -
   * - 25%
     - More than 400k
     - More than 400k
     - More than 400k
     - More than 400k
     - More than 400k
     - 1 - 1.2M
   * - 27.5%
     - -
     - -
     - -
     - -
     - -
     - More than 1.2M

Exemptions
----------

Employees are eligible to an EGP 20,000 personal exception on their gross income.

Overtime
========

Depending on the time of day and the time at which the overtime is recorded in, the additional
amount to be paid to the employee can be as follows:

> - During daytime hours on working days, the amount is 1.35 times the employee's hourly wage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- During daytime hours on working days, the amount is 1.35x times the employee's hourly wage.
```

- During nighttime hours on working days, the amount is 1.70x times the employee's hourly wage.
- On rest days and public holidays: The amount is 2.0x times the employee's hourly wage.

.. note::
   Overtime hours are registered as other inputs directly on payslips.

.. _payroll/l10n_eg_hr_payroll/provisions:

Provisions
==========

Provisions are the amounts computed by the employer to account for the payments made to the employee
for :abbr:`end-of-service (EOS)` benefits or annual leave. And it is computed on a monthly basis.

End of service benefit provision
--------------------------------

It is computed by dividing the end of service Provision Number of Days by 12 and multiplying the
result by the daily salary for the employee.

> - **Payroll computation:** (Provision Number of Days /12 ) * ((Wage + Allowaneces) /30)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. math::
   :class: overflow-scroll

   \text{Payroll computation} = \frac{\text{Provision Number of Days}}{12} \times \frac{\text{Wage} + \text{Allowances}}{30}
```

Annual leave provision
----------------------

It is computed by dividing the number of leave days by 12 and multiplying the result by the daily
salary for the employee.

> - **Payroll computation:** (Number of Leave Days /12 ) * ((Wage + Allowaneces) /30)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. math::
   :class: overflow-scroll

   \text{Payroll computation} = \frac{\text{Number of Leave Days}}{12} \times \frac{\text{Wage} + \text{Allowances}}{30}
```

.. _payroll/l10n_eg_hr_payroll/end_of_service:

> End of Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
End of service
```

==============

At the end of the service slip that is generated for the employee, there are the following points
that are unique only to the payslip:

Unused leaves compensation
--------------------------

The number of available annual leaves is shown on the employee's record. It is based on the annual
leave type defined in the Payroll settings. It is calculated as the total remaining allocations for
that specific leave type assigned to the employee.

That number is then multiplied by the daily rate for the employee and added as an allowance on their
payslip.

> End of Service Benefit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
End of service benefit
```

----------------------

It is calculated by multiplying the daily wage of the employee by the number of days for the end of
service that is set in the employee's contract.

> - **Payroll computation:** ((Wage + Allowances) /30 ) * (End of Service Number of Days)

Reviewer: wanna try using the :math directive here too? (:

> Out of Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Out of contract
```
